endpoints.md, before:

#Data Design

(a conceptual summary of what properties things have, not precisely descriptive of the database or API or anything else)

## Recipes
```js
recipe = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: {
    name: {
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit
    }
  },
  likes: "(number) total likes",
  steps: [
    "string"
  ],
  innovator: "(number) ID of innovator who created or last edited this recipe",
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe",
  timestamp: "the time that this recipe was created"
};
```

## Cooks
```js
cook = {
  username,
  password,
  edits: [
    {
      old_recipe_id,
      new_recipe_id,
      timestamp
    }
  ],
  likes: [
    recipe_id
  ],
  saved: [
    recipe_id
  ]
};
```

# Endpoints

## Account

POST `/cooks/register`
```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  message: `registration successful`
};
```

POST `/cooks/login`
```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  token: "authentication token for the session"
};
```

PUT `/cooks/self` modify account details e.g. password (auth)
```js
body = {
  username: "(optional string)",
  password: "(optional string)",
  email: "(optional string)"
};
res = {
  message: `account updated`
};
```

DELETE `/cooks/self` delete account (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: "account deleted"
};
```

GET `/cooks` get brief info on all cooks
```js
res = {
  cooks: [
    {
      id,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```

GET `/cooks/:id` get detailed info about one cook

## Recipes

GET `/recipes?.....` get brief info on all recipes, filtered if given query string
```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the cook who created or modified the recipe",
      innovator_name
    }
  ]
};
```

POST `/recipes` add a new recipe (auth)
```js
body = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: {
    name: {
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit
    }
  },
  steps: [
    "string"
  ],
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe"
};
```

GET `/recipes/:id` get detailed info about one recipe
```js
res = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: {
    name: {
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit
    }
  },
  likes: "(number) total likes",
  steps: [
    "(string) list of steps in order"
  ],
  innovator: "(number) ID of innovator who created or last edited this recipe",
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe",
  timestamp: "the time that this recipe was created"
};
```

## Cookbook

GET `/cookbook` (auth)
```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the cook who created or modified the recipe",
      innovator_name
    }
  ]
};
```

POST `/cookbook/:id` (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `recipe ${id} added to your cookbook`
};
```

DELETE `/cookbook/:id` (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `recipe ${id} removed`
};
```

## Likes

POST `/likes/:id` like a recipe (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `recipe ${id} liked`
};
```

DELETE `/likes/:id` unlike a recipe (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `you no longer like recipe ${id}`
};
```

## Info

GET `/units`

# Notes

- no images handled yet 
- Should any cook data be publicly accessible?

Commit message:

units route and update notes

endpoints.md, after:

#Data Design

(a conceptual summary of what properties things have, not precisely descriptive of the database or API or anything else)

## Recipes
```js
recipe = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: {
    name: {
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit
    }
  },
  likes: "(number) total likes",
  steps: [
    "string"
  ],
  innovator: "(number) ID of innovator who created or last edited this recipe",
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe",
  timestamp: "the time that this recipe was created"
};
```

## Cooks
```js
cook = {
  username,
  password,
  edits: [
    {
      old_recipe_id,
      new_recipe_id,
      timestamp
    }
  ],
  likes: [
    recipe_id
  ],
  saved: [
    recipe_id
  ]
};
```

# Endpoints

## Account

POST `/cooks/register`
```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  message: `registration successful`
};
```

POST `/cooks/login`
```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  token: "authentication token for the session"
};
```

PUT `/cooks/self` modify account details e.g. password (auth)
```js
body = {
  username: "(optional string)",
  password: "(optional string)",
  email: "(optional string)"
};
res = {
  message: `account updated`
};
```

DELETE `/cooks/self` delete account (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: "account deleted"
};
```

GET `/cooks` get brief info on all cooks
```js
res = {
  cooks: [
    {
      id,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```

GET `/cooks/:id` get detailed info about one cook

## Recipes

GET `/recipes?.....` get brief info on all recipes, filtered if given query string
```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the cook who created or modified the recipe",
      innovator_name
    }
  ]
};
```

POST `/recipes` add a new recipe (auth)
```js
body = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: {
    name: {
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit
    }
  },
  steps: [
    "string"
  ],
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe"
};
```

GET `/recipes/:id` get detailed info about one recipe
```js
res = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: {
    name: {
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit
    }
  },
  likes: "(number) total likes",
  steps: [
    "(string) list of steps in order"
  ],
  innovator: "(number) ID of innovator who created or last edited this recipe",
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe",
  timestamp: "the time that this recipe was created"
};
```

## Cookbook

GET `/cookbook` (auth)
```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the cook who created or modified the recipe",
      innovator_name
    }
  ]
};
```

POST `/cookbook/:id` (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `recipe ${id} added to your cookbook`
};
```

DELETE `/cookbook/:id` (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `recipe ${id} removed`
};
```

## Likes

POST `/likes/:id` like a recipe (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `recipe ${id} liked`
};
```

DELETE `/likes/:id` unlike a recipe (auth)
```js
res = {
  message: `you no longer like recipe ${id}`
};
```

## Info

GET `/units`
```js
res = {
  units: [
    "(string) name of legal unit, without regard to synonyms, abbreviations, or use cases"
  ]
};
```

# Notes

- Images aren't handled at all yet. 
- Should any cook data be publicly accessible? Currently there's no getting detailed information about a particular cook by ID because there isn't more information to give.
- Is there any benefit to being able to get one's own information? The user's ID is supplied on login, and the username and password must be known on the front end to log in successfully in the first place.
