README.md, before:

# API Documentation

#### Back-end deployed at Heroku (https://recipeshare-development.herokuapp.com/)

## Contributors


| [Lou](https://github.com/antilou86) | [Catherine](https://github.com/Katerinjo) | [Yurika](https://github.com/yuri77) |
| :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | 
|  [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/26258589?s=460&v=4" width = "200" />](https://github.com/antilou86) | [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/36314601?s=460&v=4" width = "200" />](https://github.com/Katerinjo) |  [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/12836541?s=460&v=4" width = "200" />](https://github.com/yuri77) |
| [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/antilou86) | [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/Katerinjo) | [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/yuri77) |
| [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luis-guzman-52b93b73/) | [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/) | [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/) | 

# Getting started

To get the server running locally:

- Clone this repo
- **npm i** to install all required dependencies
- **npm run server** to start the local server
- **npm run test** to start server using testing environment

## Back-end Framework

 NodeJs/Express/knex

-    At the beginning of the project about half the devs knew Node/express and half knew Java/spring. Team consensus was that Node would be easier to learn for the Java folks.
-    Sticking to a JavaScript language framework on the front end and back end would make transitioning between front and back end teams easier when roles would need to change.

# Endpoints

## Account

POST `/cooks/register`

```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  message: 'registration successful',
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  token: "authentication token for the session"
};
```

POST `/cooks/login`

```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  message: 'You have logged in',
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  token: "authentication token for the session"
};
```

PUT `/cooks/self` Modify account details e.g. password. (auth)

```js
body = {
  username: "(optional string)",
  password: "(optional string)"
};
res = {
  message: `cook has been updated`,
  id
};
```

DELETE `/cooks/self` Delete account. (auth)

```js
res = {} // (status code 204 OK)
```

GET `/cooks` Get brief info on all cooks.

```js
res = {
  cooks: [
    {
      id,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```

GET `/cooks/:id` Get detailed info about one cook.

## Recipes

GET `/recipes` or `/recipes?title=foo` Get brief information for all recipes with given string in the name. Replace "foo" with a recipe title query. A bare search returns all recipes in the database.

```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      img: "(string) URL for a photo of food",
      minutes,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the innovator who created this recipe",
      total_saves,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```

POST `/recipes` Add a new recipe. (auth)

```js
  body = {
    title,
    minutes: "(optional number) time to make, adding more types of minutes in the works",
    img: "(optional string) URL of an image of the food"
    notes: "(optional string) free-form notes about the recipe",
    categories: [
      "(string) category/tag name"
    ],
    ingredients: [
      {
        name,
        quantity: "(number)",
        unit: "(string) example- ml or g or cups"
      }
    ],
    steps: [
      body: "(string) step 1 blah blah blah"
    ],
    ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe"
  };

  res = { 
    message: 'Recipe created',
    recipe_id
  };
```

GET `/recipes/:id` Get detailed info about one recipe.

```js
res = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  img: "(string) URL of an image of food prepared with the recipe"
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: [
    {
      name,
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit: "(string) example- ml or g or cups"
    }
  ],
  total_saves: "(number) total saves",
  steps: [
    "(string) list of steps in order"
  ],
  innovator: "(number) ID of innovator who created or last edited this recipe",
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe",
  innovator_name: "(string) the username of the innovator"
};
```
## Cookbook

POST `/cookbook/:id` Save a recipe to the logged-in user's cookbook.

```js
  res = {
    message: 'Recipe Successfully Saved to Cookbook.',
    total_saves
  }
```
DELETE `/cookbook/:id` Delete a recipe from the database if the user is the only person who has the recipe in a cookbook. If another user has it saved in a different cookbook, this removes the recipe from the currently logged in user's cookbook.

```js
  res = {
    total_saves
  }
```

GET `/cookbook` or `/cookbook?category=foo` Find recipes saved by the logged in user as long as the category matches a current category tag. In the given example, replace "foo" with the desired category. If category is left empty it returns users entire cookbook.

```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      img: "(string) URL for a photo of food",
      minutes,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the innovator who created this recipe",
      total_saves,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```
GET `/edits/:ancestor_id` 

```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      img: "(string) URL for a photo of food",
      minutes,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the innovator who created this recipe",
      total_saves,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```
# Data Model

<img src="./db9.png" width = "600" />

# Actions

## cooks

`insert(cook)` -> adds a cook to cooks table

`findByUsername(username) ` -> returns a single cook by username

`all()` -> returns the all cooks

`findById(id)` -> returns a single cook by ID

`remove(id)` -> deletes a cook by ID

`update(id, changes)` -> finds a user by ID and update by specified changes

## recipes

`insertRecipe({ steps, ingredients, ancestor, innovator, categories, ...recipesEntry })` -> adds recipe to the appropriate tables on the DB

`findRecipeById(id)` -> returns a single recipe by recipe ID

`findByTitle(title)` -> returns a recipe by exact title match

`searchByTitle(title)` -> returns all recipes that match a fuzzy search

## cookbook

`cookbookFindById(cookId)` -> returns an array of recipeIDs for recipes saved by cook id

`cookbookInsert(recipeId, cookId)` -> adds recipe_id and cook_id to saves table

`cookbookRecipeDelete(recipeId, cookId)` -> deletes entry from the saves table

# Environment Variables

In order for the app to function correctly, the user must set up their own environment variables.

create a `.env` file that includes the following:
    
    *  PORT - local port for development
    *  NODE_ENV - set to "development" until ready for "production"
    *  DB_NAME - set to the name of your local development database
    *  DB_USERNAME - set to the name of your local development database username, in production this is set in heroku settings
    *  DB_PASSWORD - set to the name of your local development database password, in production this is set in heroku settings
    *  DATABASE_URL - set to your localhost and port number in development and deployment URL in production
    
# Contributing

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository before making a change.

Please note we have a [code of conduct](./code_of_conduct.md). Please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## Issue/Bug Request

 **If you are having an issue with the existing project code, please submit a bug report under the following guidelines:**
 - Check first to see if your issue has already been reported.
 - Check to see if the issue has recently been fixed by attempting to reproduce the issue using the latest master branch in the repository.
 - Create a live example of the problem.
 - Submit a detailed bug report including your environment & browser, steps to reproduce the issue, actual and expected outcomes,  where you believe the issue is originating from, and any potential solutions you have considered.

## Feature Requests

We would love to hear from you about new features which would improve this app and further the aims of our project. Please provide as much detail and information as possible to show us why you think your new feature should be implemented.

## Pull Requests

If you have developed a patch, bug fix, or new feature that would improve this app, please submit a pull request. It is best to communicate your ideas with the developers first before investing a great deal of time into a pull request to ensure that it will mesh smoothly with the project.

Remember that this project is licensed under the MIT license, and by submitting a pull request, you agree that your work will be, too.

### Pull Request Guidelines

- Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
- Update the README.md with details of changes to the interface, including new plist variables, exposed ports, useful file locations and container parameters.
- Ensure that your code conforms to our existing code conventions and test coverage.
- Include the relevant issue number, if applicable.
- You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## Attribution

These contribution guidelines have been adapted from [this good-Contributing.md-template](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/b24679402957c63ec426).

# Documentation

See [Frontend Documentation](https://github.com/Lambda-School-Labs/cooking-recipe-source-control-fe/blob/master/README.md) for details on the front-end of our project.

Commit message:

added small details to documentation

README.md, after:

# API Documentation

#### Back-end deployed at Heroku (https://recipeshare-development.herokuapp.com/)

## Contributors


| [Lou](https://github.com/antilou86) | [Catherine](https://github.com/Katerinjo) | [Yurika](https://github.com/yuri77) |
| :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | 
|  [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/26258589?s=460&v=4" width = "200" />](https://github.com/antilou86) | [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/36314601?s=460&v=4" width = "200" />](https://github.com/Katerinjo) |  [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/12836541?s=460&v=4" width = "200" />](https://github.com/yuri77) |
| [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/antilou86) | [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/Katerinjo) | [<img src="https://github.com/favicon.ico" width="15"> ](https://github.com/yuri77) |
| [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luis-guzman-52b93b73/) | [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/) | [ <img src="https://static.licdn.com/sc/h/al2o9zrvru7aqj8e1x2rzsrca" width="15"> ](https://www.linkedin.com/) | 

# Getting started

To get the server running locally:

- Clone this repo
- **npm i** to install all required dependencies
- **npm run server** to start the local server
- **npm run test** to start server using testing environment

## Back-end Framework

 NodeJs/Express/knex

-    At the beginning of the project about half the devs knew Node/express and half knew Java/spring. Team consensus was that Node would be easier to learn for the Java folks.
-    Sticking to a JavaScript language framework on the front end and back end would make transitioning between front and back end teams easier when roles would need to change.

# Endpoints

## Account

POST `/cooks/register`

```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  message: 'registration successful',
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  token: "authentication token for the session"
};
```

POST `/cooks/login`

```js
body = {
  username,
  password
};
res = {
  message: 'You have logged in',
  id: "(number) the ID of the user/cook",
  token: "authentication token for the session"
};
```

PUT `/cooks/self` Modify account details e.g. password. (auth)

```js
body = {
  username: "(optional string)",
  password: "(optional string)"
};
res = {
  message: `cook has been updated`,
  id
};
```

DELETE `/cooks/self` Delete account. (auth)

```js
res = {} // (status code 204 OK)
```

GET `/cooks` Get brief info on all cooks.

```js
res = {
  cooks: [
    {
      id,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```

GET `/cooks/:id` Get detailed info about one cook.

## Recipes

GET `/recipes` or `/recipes?title=foo` Get brief information for all recipes with given string in the name. Replace "foo" with a recipe title query. A bare search returns all recipes in the database.

```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      img: "(string) URL for a photo of food",
      minutes,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the innovator who created this recipe",
      total_saves,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```

POST `/recipes` Add a new recipe. (auth)

```js
  body = {
    title,
    minutes: "(optional number) time to make, adding more types of minutes in the works",
    img: "(optional string) URL of an image of the food"
    notes: "(optional string) free-form notes about the recipe",
    categories: [
      "(string) category/tag name"
    ],
    ingredients: [
      {
        name,
        quantity: "(number)",
        unit: "(string) example- ml or g or cups"
      }
    ],
    steps: [
      body: "(string) step 1 blah blah blah"
    ],
    ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe"
  };

  res = { 
    message: 'Recipe created',
    recipe_id
  };
```

GET `/recipes/:id` Get detailed info about one recipe.

```js
res = {
  title,
  minutes: "(optional number) preparation time in minutes",
  img: "(string) URL of an image of food prepared with the recipe"
  notes: "(optional) free-form notes about the recipe",
  "(optional) categories": [
    "(string) category/tag name"
  ],
  ingredients: [
    {
      name,
      quantity: "(number)",
      unit: "(string) example- ml or g or cups"
    }
  ],
  total_saves: "(number) total saves",
  steps: [
    "(string) list of steps in order"
  ],
  innovator: "(number) ID of innovator who created or last edited this recipe",
  ancestor: "(optional number) the ID of the previous version of this recipe",
  innovator_name: "(string) the username of the innovator"
};
```
## Cookbook

POST `/cookbook/:id` Save a recipe to the logged-in user's cookbook.

```js
  res = {
    message: 'Recipe Successfully Saved to Cookbook.',
    total_saves
  }
```
DELETE `/cookbook/:id` Delete a recipe from the database if the user is the only person who has the recipe in a cookbook. If another user has it saved in a different cookbook, this removes the recipe from the currently logged in user's cookbook.

```js
  res = {
    total_saves
  }
```

GET `/cookbook` or `/cookbook?category=foo` Find recipes saved by the logged in user as long as the category matches a current category tag. In the given example, replace "foo" with the desired category. If category is left empty it returns users entire cookbook.

```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      img: "(string) URL for a photo of food",
      minutes,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the innovator who created this recipe",
      total_saves,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```
GET `/edits/:ancestor_id` Gets an array of recipe objects containing the below details.

```js
res = {
  recipes: [
    {
      id,
      title,
      img: "(string) URL for a photo of food",
      minutes,
      innovator_id: "(number) the ID of the innovator who created this recipe",
      total_saves,
      username
    }
  ]
};
```
# Data Model

<img src="./db9.png" width = "600" />

# Actions

## cooks

`insert(cook)` -> adds a cook to cooks table

`findByUsername(username) ` -> returns a single cook by username

`all()` -> returns the all cooks

`findById(id)` -> returns a single cook by ID

`remove(id)` -> deletes a cook by ID

`update(id, changes)` -> finds a user by ID and update by specified changes

## recipes

`insertRecipe({ steps, ingredients, ancestor, innovator, categories, ...recipesEntry })` -> adds recipe to the appropriate tables on the DB

`findRecipeById(id)` -> returns a single recipe by recipe ID

`findByTitle(title)` -> returns a recipe by exact title match

`searchByTitle(title)` -> returns all recipes that match a fuzzy search

## cookbook

`cookbookFindById(cookId)` -> returns an array of recipeIDs for recipes saved by cook id

`cookbookInsert(recipeId, cookId)` -> adds recipe_id and cook_id to saves table

`cookbookRecipeDelete(recipeId, cookId)` -> deletes entry from the saves table

# Environment Variables

In order for the app to function correctly, the user must set up their own environment variables.

create a `.env` file that includes the following:
    
    *  PORT - local port for development
    *  NODE_ENV - set to "development" until ready for "production"
    *  DB_NAME - set to the name of your local development database
    *  DB_USERNAME - set to the name of your local development database username, in production this is set in heroku settings
    *  DB_PASSWORD - set to the name of your local development database password, in production this is set in heroku settings
    *  DATABASE_URL - set to your localhost and port number in development and deployment URL in production
    
# Contributing

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository before making a change.

Please note we have a [code of conduct](./code_of_conduct.md). Please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## Issue/Bug Request

 **If you are having an issue with the existing project code, please submit a bug report under the following guidelines:**
 - Check first to see if your issue has already been reported.
 - Check to see if the issue has recently been fixed by attempting to reproduce the issue using the latest master branch in the repository.
 - Create a live example of the problem.
 - Submit a detailed bug report including your environment & browser, steps to reproduce the issue, actual and expected outcomes,  where you believe the issue is originating from, and any potential solutions you have considered.

## Feature Requests

We would love to hear from you about new features which would improve this app and further the aims of our project. Please provide as much detail and information as possible to show us why you think your new feature should be implemented.

## Pull Requests

If you have developed a patch, bug fix, or new feature that would improve this app, please submit a pull request. It is best to communicate your ideas with the developers first before investing a great deal of time into a pull request to ensure that it will mesh smoothly with the project.

Remember that this project is licensed under the MIT license, and by submitting a pull request, you agree that your work will be, too.

### Pull Request Guidelines

- Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
- Update the README.md with details of changes to the interface, including new plist variables, exposed ports, useful file locations and container parameters.
- Ensure that your code conforms to our existing code conventions and test coverage.
- Include the relevant issue number, if applicable.
- You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## Attribution

These contribution guidelines have been adapted from [this good-Contributing.md-template](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/b24679402957c63ec426).

# Documentation

See [Frontend Documentation](https://github.com/Lambda-School-Labs/cooking-recipe-source-control-fe/blob/master/README.md) for details on the front-end of our project.
